### Read4

Rohan Sharman et. al. *A Comparison of Constraint-based and Sequence-based Generation of Complex Input Data Structures*, 2010.

##### ii1. *Input data structures*
This paper addresses the generation of data structures for use in test cases, as opposed to the previously covered papers which generated test cases but focused mainly on input such as integers.

##### ii2. *Constraint-based generation*
Constraint-based generation is a method of generating data structures based on their concrete representation, which is specified by the user as input to the generator.

##### ii3. *Sequence-based generation*
Sequence-based generation, as opposed to constraint-based, consists of generating data structures by applying a sequence of operations such as starting with an empty tree and sequentially adding nodes.

##### iii1. Motivation
Constraint-based and sequence-based generation are used in similar areas for test case generation, and the authors wanted to compare the inputs generated by each to determine whether one omits certain possible inputs or if there are any other important differences between the two.

##### iii2. Study Instruments
This paper used the software Korat for constraint-based generation and JPF (Java PathFinder) for sequence-based generation.

##### iii3. New Results
The results showed that constraint-based generation can lead to false positives when there is a legal object that is never reached as a sequence of operations during sequence-based generation.

##### iii4. Related Work
The paper reviewed several papers that analyzed either constraint-based or sequence-based generation, although neither directly compared the two.

##### iv1.
The paper does not compare the time taken by each approach to find a certain number of data structures.

##### iv2.
The analysis is not particularly useful, as it mainly focuses on just how many inputs were generated without much in-depth analysis on what led to certain inputs not being generated by one method.

##### iv3.
The paper mentioned the relationship of sequence length for sequence-based generation to percentage of possible inputs generated, but did not explore this in any more depth.

##### v. Connection
Generating complex data structures as input to methods is an important part of test case generation which was not covered in detail by any of the paper reviewed previously.
